README.rst, before:

redis-dump-load
===============

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/p/redis-dump-load.png
  :target: https://travis-ci.org/p/redis-dump-load

Dumps Redis data sets into a format suitable for long-term storage
(currently JSON) and loads data from such dump files back into Redis.

redis-dump_ was there first, but it is written in Ruby.

The output format is intended to be compatible with redis-dump.

Usage
-----

redis-dump-load may be used as a module and also as a command line tool.

Module Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^

redis-dump-load exports a pickle_-like interface, namely ``load``,
``loads``, ``dump`` and ``dumps`` functions. For example::

    import redisdl

    json_text = redisdl.dumps()

    with open('path/to/dump.json', 'w') as f:
        # streams data
        redisdl.dump(f)

    json_text = '...'
    redisdl.loads(json_text)

    with open('path/to/dump.json') as f:
        # streams data if ijson is installed
        redisdl.load(f)

See the streaming section below for more information about streaming.

Dump and load methods accept options as keyword arguments::

    json_text = redisdl.dumps(encoding='iso-8859-1', pretty=True)

The arguments should always be passed in as keywords, i.e, do not rely
on the order in which the parameters are currently listed.
Options take string values unless otherwise noted. The options are as follows:

- ``host``: host name or IP address for redis server
- ``port``: port number for redis server
- ``unix_socket_path``: connect to redis via a Unix socket instead of TCP/IP;
  specify the path to the socket
- ``password``: specify password to connect to redis
- ``db`` (integer): redis database to connect to
- ``encoding``: encoding to use for encoding or decoding the data, see
  Unicode section below
- ``pretty`` (boolean, dump only): produce a pretty-printed JSON which is
  easier to read; currently this makes ``dump`` load entire data set into
  memory rather than stream it
- ``keys`` (dump only): only dump keys matching specified pattern
- ``use_expireat`` (boolean, load only): use ``expireat`` in preference to ``ttl`` when loading expiring keys
- ``empty`` (boolean, load only): empty the redis data set before loading the
  data
- ``streaming_backend`` (string): ijson_ backend to use when loading via
  ``load`` method, if ijson is installed and streaming is thus used

Command Line Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``redisdl.py`` can be used as a command line tool as follows::

    # dump database 0
    ./redisdl.py > dump.json
    ./redisdl.py -o dump.json

    # load into database 0
    ./redisdl.py -l < dump.json
    ./redisdl.py -l dump.json

For convenience, ``redisdl.py`` can be hard or soft linked as follows::

    ln redisdl.py redis-dump
    ln redisdl.py redis-load

Now it can be used thusly::

    # dump database 0
    ./redis-dump > dump.json
    ./redis-dump -o dump.json

    # load into database 0
    ./redis-load < dump.json
    ./redis-load dump.json

Symlinks work as well. "load" in the executable name triggers the loading
mode, "dump" triggers the dumping mode, otherwise the default is to dump
and ``-l`` option switches into the loading mode.

All options supported by the module API are accepted when redisdl is invoked
as a command line tool. The command line options are:

- ``-h``/``--help``: help text
- ``-H HOST``/``--host HOST``: specify redis host
- ``-p PORT``/``--port PORT``: specify redis port
- ``-s SOCKET_PATH``/``--socket SOCKET_PATH``: connect to Unix socket at
  the specified path
- ``-w PASSWORD``/``--password PASSWORD``: password to use when connecting to redis
- ``-d DATABASE``/``--db DATABASE``: redis database to connect to (integer)
- ``-k PATTERN``/``--keys PATTERN`` (dumping only): dump only keys matching specified glob-style pattern
- ``-E ENCODING``/``-encoding ENCODING``: specify encoding to use
- ``-o PATH``/``--output PATH``: write dump to PATH rather than standard output
- ``-y``/``--pretty`` (dumping only): pretty-print JSON
- ``-A``/``--use-expireat`` (loading only): use ``expireat`` rather than ``ttl`` values in the dump
- ``-e``/``--empty`` (loading only): empty redis data set before loading
- ``-B BACKEND``/``--backend BACKEND`` (loading only): ijson streaming backend to use

Streaming
---------

``dump`` will stream data unless ``pretty`` is given and ``True``.

``load`` will stream data if ijson_ is installed. To determine whether
redis-dump-load supports streaming data load, examine
``redisdl.have_streaming_load`` variable.

Default ijson streaming backend is ``python`` and ijson does not autoselect
backends based on installed json libraries. To use a non-default ijson backend,
either pass the desired backend as follows::

    redisdl.load(io, streaming_backend='yajl2')

... or set the desired backend globally as follows::

    redisdl.streaming_backend = 'yajl2'

Note: yajl2 backend fails when it is given strings on Python 3. Please open
the files in binary mode and use ``BytesIO`` rather than ``StringIO`` objects.

Note: streaming loading is substantially slower than lump loading.

TTL, EXPIRE and EXPIREAT
------------------------

When dumping, redis-dump-load dumps the TTL values for expiring keys
as well as calculated time when the keys will expire (``expireat``).
As Redis does not provide a command to retrieve absolute expiration time of
a key, the expiration time is calculated using the current time on the
*client*'s system. As such, if the time on the client system is not in sync
with time on the system where the Redis server is running, ``expireat``
values will be incorrect.

When loading, redis-dump-load by default uses the TTL values in the dump
(``ttl`` key) to set expiration times on the keys in preference to
``expireat`` values. This will maintain the expiration times of the keys
relative to the dump/load time but will change the absolute expiration time
of the keys. Using ``-A``/``--use-expireat`` command line option or
``use_expireat`` parameter to module functions will make redis-dump-load
use ``expireat`` values in preference to ``ttl`` values, setting expiring
keys to expire at the same absolute time as they had before they were dumped
(as long as system times are in sync on all machines involved).

Unicode
-------

Redis operates on bytes and has no concept of Unicode or encodings.
JSON operates on Unicode strings and cannot serialize binary data. Therefore,
redis-dump-load has to encode Unicode strings into byte strings when
loading data into Redis and decode byte strings into Unicode strings
when dumping data from Redis.
By default redis-dump-load uses utf-8 for encoding and decoding.
This behavior matches redis-py, whose default encoding is utf-8.
A different encoding can be specified.

Concurrent Modifications
------------------------

redis-dump-load does not lock the entire data set it is dumping,
because Redis does not provide a way to do so.
As a result, modifications to the data set made while a dump is in progress
affect the contents of the dump.

Dependencies
------------

- redis-py_
- ijson_ (optional, for streaming load)
- simplejson_ (Python 2.5 only)

Tests
-----

redis-dump-load has a test suite. To run it, install nose_ and run::

    nosetests

There are several tests that check for race conditions and as such take
a long time to run. To skip them, invoke nose thusly::

    nosetests -a '!slow'

License
-------

Released under the 2 clause BSD license.

.. _redis-dump: https://github.com/delano/redis-dump
.. _redis-py: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py
.. _simplejson: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/simplejson/
.. _pickle: http://docs.python.org/library/pickle.html
.. _nose: https://nose.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
.. _ijson: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ijson

Commit message:

Note which version the ttl functionality was added in

README.rst, after:

redis-dump-load
===============

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/p/redis-dump-load.png
  :target: https://travis-ci.org/p/redis-dump-load

Dumps Redis data sets into a format suitable for long-term storage
(currently JSON) and loads data from such dump files back into Redis.

redis-dump_ was there first, but it is written in Ruby.

The output format is intended to be compatible with redis-dump.

Usage
-----

redis-dump-load may be used as a module and also as a command line tool.

Module Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^

redis-dump-load exports a pickle_-like interface, namely ``load``,
``loads``, ``dump`` and ``dumps`` functions. For example::

    import redisdl

    json_text = redisdl.dumps()

    with open('path/to/dump.json', 'w') as f:
        # streams data
        redisdl.dump(f)

    json_text = '...'
    redisdl.loads(json_text)

    with open('path/to/dump.json') as f:
        # streams data if ijson is installed
        redisdl.load(f)

See the streaming section below for more information about streaming.

Dump and load methods accept options as keyword arguments::

    json_text = redisdl.dumps(encoding='iso-8859-1', pretty=True)

The arguments should always be passed in as keywords, i.e, do not rely
on the order in which the parameters are currently listed.
Options take string values unless otherwise noted. The options are as follows:

- ``host``: host name or IP address for redis server
- ``port``: port number for redis server
- ``unix_socket_path``: connect to redis via a Unix socket instead of TCP/IP;
  specify the path to the socket
- ``password``: specify password to connect to redis
- ``db`` (integer): redis database to connect to
- ``encoding``: encoding to use for encoding or decoding the data, see
  Unicode section below
- ``pretty`` (boolean, dump only): produce a pretty-printed JSON which is
  easier to read; currently this makes ``dump`` load entire data set into
  memory rather than stream it
- ``keys`` (dump only): only dump keys matching specified pattern
- ``use_expireat`` (boolean, load only): use ``expireat`` in preference to ``ttl`` when loading expiring keys
- ``empty`` (boolean, load only): empty the redis data set before loading the
  data
- ``streaming_backend`` (string): ijson_ backend to use when loading via
  ``load`` method, if ijson is installed and streaming is thus used

Command Line Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``redisdl.py`` can be used as a command line tool as follows::

    # dump database 0
    ./redisdl.py > dump.json
    ./redisdl.py -o dump.json

    # load into database 0
    ./redisdl.py -l < dump.json
    ./redisdl.py -l dump.json

For convenience, ``redisdl.py`` can be hard or soft linked as follows::

    ln redisdl.py redis-dump
    ln redisdl.py redis-load

Now it can be used thusly::

    # dump database 0
    ./redis-dump > dump.json
    ./redis-dump -o dump.json

    # load into database 0
    ./redis-load < dump.json
    ./redis-load dump.json

Symlinks work as well. "load" in the executable name triggers the loading
mode, "dump" triggers the dumping mode, otherwise the default is to dump
and ``-l`` option switches into the loading mode.

All options supported by the module API are accepted when redisdl is invoked
as a command line tool. The command line options are:

- ``-h``/``--help``: help text
- ``-H HOST``/``--host HOST``: specify redis host
- ``-p PORT``/``--port PORT``: specify redis port
- ``-s SOCKET_PATH``/``--socket SOCKET_PATH``: connect to Unix socket at
  the specified path
- ``-w PASSWORD``/``--password PASSWORD``: password to use when connecting to redis
- ``-d DATABASE``/``--db DATABASE``: redis database to connect to (integer)
- ``-k PATTERN``/``--keys PATTERN`` (dumping only): dump only keys matching specified glob-style pattern
- ``-E ENCODING``/``-encoding ENCODING``: specify encoding to use
- ``-o PATH``/``--output PATH``: write dump to PATH rather than standard output
- ``-y``/``--pretty`` (dumping only): pretty-print JSON
- ``-A``/``--use-expireat`` (loading only): use ``expireat`` rather than ``ttl`` values in the dump
- ``-e``/``--empty`` (loading only): empty redis data set before loading
- ``-B BACKEND``/``--backend BACKEND`` (loading only): ijson streaming backend to use

Streaming
---------

``dump`` will stream data unless ``pretty`` is given and ``True``.

``load`` will stream data if ijson_ is installed. To determine whether
redis-dump-load supports streaming data load, examine
``redisdl.have_streaming_load`` variable.

Default ijson streaming backend is ``python`` and ijson does not autoselect
backends based on installed json libraries. To use a non-default ijson backend,
either pass the desired backend as follows::

    redisdl.load(io, streaming_backend='yajl2')

... or set the desired backend globally as follows::

    redisdl.streaming_backend = 'yajl2'

Note: yajl2 backend fails when it is given strings on Python 3. Please open
the files in binary mode and use ``BytesIO`` rather than ``StringIO`` objects.

Note: streaming loading is substantially slower than lump loading.

TTL, EXPIRE and EXPIREAT
------------------------

When dumping, redis-dump-load dumps the TTL values for expiring keys
as well as calculated time when the keys will expire (``expireat``).
As Redis does not provide a command to retrieve absolute expiration time of
a key, the expiration time is calculated using the current time on the
*client*'s system. As such, if the time on the client system is not in sync
with time on the system where the Redis server is running, ``expireat``
values will be incorrect.

When loading, redis-dump-load by default uses the TTL values in the dump
(``ttl`` key) to set expiration times on the keys in preference to
``expireat`` values. This will maintain the expiration times of the keys
relative to the dump/load time but will change the absolute expiration time
of the keys. Using ``-A``/``--use-expireat`` command line option or
``use_expireat`` parameter to module functions will make redis-dump-load
use ``expireat`` values in preference to ``ttl`` values, setting expiring
keys to expire at the same absolute time as they had before they were dumped
(as long as system times are in sync on all machines involved).

Dumping and loading of TTL values and expiration times has been added as of
redis-dump-load version 0.5.0.

Unicode
-------

Redis operates on bytes and has no concept of Unicode or encodings.
JSON operates on Unicode strings and cannot serialize binary data. Therefore,
redis-dump-load has to encode Unicode strings into byte strings when
loading data into Redis and decode byte strings into Unicode strings
when dumping data from Redis.
By default redis-dump-load uses utf-8 for encoding and decoding.
This behavior matches redis-py, whose default encoding is utf-8.
A different encoding can be specified.

Concurrent Modifications
------------------------

redis-dump-load does not lock the entire data set it is dumping,
because Redis does not provide a way to do so.
As a result, modifications to the data set made while a dump is in progress
affect the contents of the dump.

Dependencies
------------

- redis-py_
- ijson_ (optional, for streaming load)
- simplejson_ (Python 2.5 only)

Tests
-----

redis-dump-load has a test suite. To run it, install nose_ and run::

    nosetests

There are several tests that check for race conditions and as such take
a long time to run. To skip them, invoke nose thusly::

    nosetests -a '!slow'

License
-------

Released under the 2 clause BSD license.

.. _redis-dump: https://github.com/delano/redis-dump
.. _redis-py: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py
.. _simplejson: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/simplejson/
.. _pickle: http://docs.python.org/library/pickle.html
.. _nose: https://nose.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
.. _ijson: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ijson
